                  Chapter 5: DISGCL Commands
               -------------------------------

This chapter describes several DISGCL commands.

5.1 Termination of DISGCL

The command EXIT terminates a DISGCL session.

The call is:  EXIT

5.2 Getting Help

The HELP command activates a menu for getting help.

The call is:  HELP

5.3 Including DISGCL Files

A DISGCL file can be included into another GCL file or GCL
session with the statement

INCLUDE 'file[.gcl]'

Notes:

 - Up to 8 include files can be nested.
 - DISGCL searches  the  current working  directory for the
   filename. If the search fails, GCL searches the directo-
   ry defined by the environment variable GCL_PATH.

5.4 Listing Variables

The command LIST list all defined variables.

The call is: LIST  [option]  [v1, v2, ..., vn]

option       can have the values  -s  and -u. If -s is used,
             only  system  variables  are listed,  if  -u is
             used, only user-defined variables are listed.

v1, v2, ..,  are the names of variables. If no variables are
         vn  specified, all defined variables are listed.

5.5 Freeing Variables

The command  FREE  deallocates the space allocated by arrays
and strings.

The call is:    FREE v1, v2, ..., vn

v1, v2, .., vn  are the names of variables.

5.6 The PRINT Command

The command  PRINT  prints the value of an expression on the
screen.

The call is:      PRINT expr1, expr2, ..., exprn

expr1, expr2, .., exprn   are expressions.

5.7 The PRINTL Command

The command  PRINTL prints the values of expressions  on the
screen. While the PRINT command may print values on multiple
lines, PRINTL prints the expression values into one line se-
parated by one blank. The line is terminated with a  newline 
character. 

The call is:      PRINTL expr1, expr2, ..., exprn

expr1, expr2, .., exprn   are expressions.

5.8 Logging Commands

The command  LOGON defines a file where interactive commands
will be logged.

The call is:  LOGON cfil

cfil          is a string containing a filename.

Notes:

 - Logging can be terminated with the command LOGOFF.
 - A log file can be executed  with the DISGCL  command,  or
   can be included  into  a DISGCL session with the  INCLUDE
   statement.
 - If the file cfil already exists,  a new file version will 
   be created.

5.9 Creating Arrays

The commands  BYTE,  CHAR,  INT,  SHORT,  FLOAT,  DOUBLE and
COMPLEX create corresponding arrays and initialize them with
zeros.

The call is:  FLOAT list

list          is a list  of arrays with dimension specifica-
              tions separated by commas.

Example:      FLOAT A[10], B[5,10]   creates an array A with
              10 elements  and a matrix B with 5 rows and 10
              columns.

